# Brick-Breaker-Game
This game is written in JAVA.

The code demonstrates the fundementals of OOP and makes heavy use of the Observer design pattern, as well as mechanics physics. Obvious objects in this code include: the bricks, the balls, the levels. In addition to the trivial objects stated above, deeper objects exist such as: level objects, background objects, Collidable objects, points, lines and animations as well.

The physics in this game rely on vectors and and mathmatical calculations. For example, every ball has a current and a trajectory position (position in next frame), the distance between these two points will depend of the balls velocity. within each itteration of the animation loop (every frame), each ball will cal the "moveOneStep()" method, and calculate wether a collission is set to occur within those two points. This calculation is done by first creating a line object, where the cordinates correspond to current and trajectory points of the ball. This line is then used to find any collisions (interception points) with any other collidable objects in the environment.

If a collission has been detected, the ball has to bounce occordingly, if a block has been hit, the ball must bounce in the opposite direction, if the paddle was hit, the balls bounce angle will depend on the collision location on the padde. Therefore the ball must have sufficiant information regarding the collision. In addition, the object that has been hit must delete itself if it is a brick. Thats quite alot to do at once, and can get a little messy, both from a coding perspective, and from a logical perspective. Therefore, listener design pattern has been implemented.

Berfore we get into how the listener pattern has been implemented, it is important to note that because I am using a GUI platform in this project, many objects are Sprites (animations that appear on the screen), and therefore must all update there "animation state" for every frame. This is another reason the listener pattern was chosen.

The implementation logic is as follows. Every object that implements the "Sprite" object, is a listener, and will get notified every time a new frame is called. Each sprite has its own implementaion of the "timePassed()" method, that gets called for every frame. The notifer is the level, and will itterate through its list of sprites and call their "timePassed()" method. Using this logic, I then was able to solve the collision problem in a more efficiant manner as well. When the ball gets notified and call the timePassed() method, it will run through its logic for the frame, and if a collision has been detected, the object that was hit will send the collision information back to the ball (rather than the ball making this calculation), and the balls new direction will be updated accordingly. Now the ball will bounce in the correct direction depending on the object that has been hit.

